---
layout: post
title:  'Reading 06: The Problem with Government Access to Electronic Devices'
date:   2018-02-25 21:00:00 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
In [this address from 2015][comey-address], former FBI director James Comey discusses the "Going Dark" problem that has been caused by advances in security and encryption in electronic devices.  He explains how the inability to access encrypted data without a user's password makes it hard for the FBI to access information that is relative a case that previously would have access to with a warrant if the information was on paper or a less sophisticated device.  He asks that tech companies and government departments work together to come up with a solution that gives the government access to devices when it needs to but maintains individual privacy and security.

His concerns are very valid.  I do think we would live in a safer country if the government can access the devices of criminals, terrorist organizations, and foreign enemies to fight crime, terrorism, and external threats.  And I sympathize with the notion that "If you've got nothing to hide, you've got nothing to fear" when it comes to hiding criminal activities.  If something is unlawful, doing this activity on a private device makes it no less unlawful.

My understanding of the tech behind this issue is essentially that a password is used to encrypt and unencrypt data, and without this password, the data cannot be accessed.  Standard practice is that companies do not have access to their users' passwords, so companies are helpless when it comes to unencrypting the data.  [This article][sb-details] about the San Bernardino terrorist attack leads me to believe that in most cases, companies can in theory find a way to the data, it just requires new software to allow for this (or the removal of software that impairs brute force entry).  This makes sense because when people forget their password, you can reset it and make a new one, thus the data is unencrypted without the user's password.  Maybe it is the case that password resets are not possible in all cases.

My concern is that making a door for the government to access encrypted data might not be technically realistic.  This is the view expressed by YouTuber CGP Grey in in his video ["Should all locks have keys? Phones, Castles, Encryption, and You."][grey-keys-locks].  Essentially, if the government has a back door to devices, in theory *anyone* can get in this backdoor, including the bad guys.  Therefore, by the nature of the technology, it is not possible to give the government a way in without weakening the privacy of device owners.  It's not a matter of protecting users from the government, it's a matter of protecting them from all hackers.

I'd question if it is truly impossible to securely give the government access without anyone else, but it is definitely a difficult task.  What I would consider supporting is some sort of law that obliges owners to enter their password after a warrant has been issued.  A legal way in, rather than a technical way in.  It would be similar to refusing a breathalyzer.  If you refuse the breathalyzer, it is assumed that you are under the influence.  If you refuse to enter your password, after a warrant, you are assumed to be guilty.  I understand that there are a lot of legal issues with this, and that sometimes it would be wrong to consider someone guilty for them not allowing access to their device, and that there may be complicated cases.  But I think something like this is better than a back door into devices.

Grey probably would not like that proposed idea, because he seems to believe that governments should not deserve to have access to a person's phone at all, as expressed in ["Footnote *: I, Phone"][grey-i-phone]. He says that warrants were meant for documents.  The information on an iPhone encompasses aspects of every part of the user's life.  Your iPhone may know more about you than you do.  Therefore, giving someone access to what is on your iPhone is more like allowing someone to read you mind.  He says this is far too extreme compared to the original intent of warrants.  Grey goes on to suppose that one day, we may literally have computer chips in our brains helping us remember things.  If laws continue to allow the government to access devices, then laws will eventually literally allow the government to access our minds.


[comey-address]: https://www.fbi.gov/news/testimony/going-dark-encryption-technology-and-the-balances-between-public-safety-and-privacy
[sb-details]: https://www.wired.com/2016/02/apples-fbi-battle-is-complicated-heres-whats-really-going-on/
[grey-keys-locks]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VPBH1eW28mo
[grey-i-phone]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e-ZpsxnmmbE
