---
layout: post
title:  'Reading 07: Internet Ads and Data Collection'
date:   2018-03-02 14:00:00 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
Personally customized advertising has reached new levels in recent years due to advances in data science and the quantity of data about each of us on the internet.  It's thought of as a tradeoff with most websites and apps.  We get a service for free, and the company gets our data and profits from it through advertisements.  I think this is a relatively fair exchange, but do have some reservations, which I will get into soon.  I also think that getting these personalized ads (or items on social media feeds) really is not all that bad.  If Amazon's AI bots can figure out something I might want to buy based on my previous purchases, try me.  I might have never thought to buy this thing before but it could actually improve my life in a unique way.

It is scary to see how good these companies are at figuring out what to advertise.  (To take this back to my comment last week in class about the NSA being bad at what it does, I would argue that if Google had the data the NSA does and was trying to thwart terrorism and mass shootings, it would be far better at figuring out potential threats than the NSA because they have far better data science abilities.)  Examples like Target realizing a woman was pregnant before she told her parents and Facebook finding out a man was gay before he told anyone attest to this [(source)][target-facebook].  The power these companies have because of our data is a bit intimidating.  

The value of all my data on the internet [is said to be worth around $1,200][data-value].  I think it's worth more, or at least will be worth much more in the near future.  Amazon is using people's conversations Alexa in order to create a state of the art speech and natural language processing tools.  Google is preforming machine learning on our YouTube videos to create incredibly accurate and powerful imagine detection software.  AI is being built with my data.  We are about to live in an AI first world.  Jobs are going to be lost as a result, and these companies are going to reap massive profits.  I have thought about this a lot and have a potential solution.  If you built your tool with my data, I deserve a share of the profits.  Using a service for free is not quite enough.  I think this serves two purposes: one is that it creates more of a partnership with these companies when it comes to our data and privacy, and the other is that it provides an income to people who may lose jobs due to advances in AI. It is fitting because they are getting paybacks from the tool they're data helped build that ultimately replaced them. Of course, these companies are not going to want to give up profits if they do not have to, but I think this is a policy to think about as our world shifts into an AI dominant world.

My biggest issue with the data driven advertising on the internet is that some methods of collecting data and showing ads are not ethical.  [This article][facebook-children] discusses how Facebook targeted emotionally insecure youth on Facebook.  I take issue with almost the whole way Facebook and other social media sites get our data.  They manipulate us to be on their sites for as long as possible so they can send us the most ads.  Social media is good in moderation but I think it has in some way altered the psychology of my generation.  I sit around people who do not want to have a conversation and instead sit on their phones and scroll.  This is not right.  When I was traveling while studying abroad people (even I was a culprit) sometimes cared more about the Instagram picture they would get in a city than the actual experience they were having.  I had friends that would basically have me take photoshoots of them so they would have a good Instagram post.  I saw what looked like twelve-year-old girls doing the exact same things my friends were doing in front of the Eiffel Tower and I felt sheer sadness.  Teenagers are valuing themselves over how many likes they can get on a post.  I think the same way cigarettes packs have "Warning smoking causes lung cancer and is addictive" on them, Facebook needs a disclaimer, "Warning social media can cause depression and is addictive."

I know that rant was somewhat tangential but I am pretty passionate about that issue, the point is that there are ethical and unethical ways of collecting data and pushing advertisements.  Google Maps, Google Search, Amazon, I think things like these are fine because they are productive.  Facebook is somewhat the opposite of productive and is a net to capture people so that Facebook can profit. There is a responsibility for companies to ensure their product or service is having a positive impact on the lives of those who use it, and this is not specific to tech companies and what is permissible and is not sometimes is not as black and white as we shoud like.

I think I you want to be private you just cannot use these services.  Its as simple as that.  If you do not want Google to know where you are, get out a physical map instead of using Google Maps... we survived centuries doing things without these apps.  It is an unrealistic expectation to hope for total privacy on the internet an I do not have that much of an ethical issue with that.

With regard to ad blocking, if it exists and it works I do not have a problem with people using them. Companies will need to think of different business models.  I actually recently started using an ad blocker as of about a week ago.  I just think its fair, companies do whatever is in the legal limits with our data so we can do whatever is in our legal limits to block ads and sort of hold our own against these companies.



[target-facebook]: https://www.buzzfeed.com/katieheaney/facebook-knew-i-was-gay-before-my-family-did?utm_term=.ggn6MGQ2Q#.dmKqd4ozo
[data-value]: https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2012/03/how-much-is-your-data-worth-mmm-somewhere-between-half-a-cent-and-1-200/254730/
[facebook-children]: http://www.news.com.au/technology/online/social/leaked-document-reveals-facebook-conducted-research-to-target-emotionally-vulnerable-and-insecure-youth/news-story/d256f850be6b1c8a21aec6e32dae16fd

