---
layout: post
title:  'Reading 10: Internet Anonymity and Trolls'
date:   2018-04-01 23:00:00 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
I do not think you can specifically definite what trolling is, but we all know it when we see it.  It is the act of attacking someone else, usually from a distance, which is why the internet has become a haven for trolls.  The anonymity of the internet has supported trolls attacking other people or fighting each other in comment sections about content that ranges from mundane to controversial. Trolls can attack the writers of articles with options they disagree with or want to suppress, and can do so without revealing their identity.  The perk for trolls is you can say whatever you want without it coming back to you.  

The primary motive for people who trolls seems to be because they disagree with a different opinion and want to attack it as harshly as they can.  But sometimes people are just lonely or depressed and want to take out their sadness and anger in some way, which [feminist activist Lindy West discovered when she replied to a troll][west-troll].  The effects of trolling are that people may become incredibly personally offended or even actually stop their work, letting the troll win.  Trolling creates a hostile angry space for everyone involved and watching.

Technology companies absolutely need to do what they can to counter trolling and online harassment.  I think it’s pretty hard to do this, because no one seems to know how to stop it.  This is reflected in how Google attempted to solve these issues by forcing users to have real names, [but gave up on the policy][google-names].  I think companies should do what they can, and they should not say, “there is nothing we can do” because they should continue to find the best way to solve these problems.  Eventually they might figure it out.

I never heard of [GamerGate][gamer-gate] before completing these readings.  The harassment performed by those lashing against the feminist video game movement is definitely inappropriate and does show what can result from anonymity on the internet.  I also understand why gamers might have been unhappy with what they see as a feminist attack on their games and their lifestyle.  I think it would have been fine to express disagreement, even anonymously, but people need to grow up and be respectful.  

Cyber bullying is a big problem on the internet for children.  For adults, there are cases of harassment and trolling that fall into the category of cyber bullying, and these behaviors are not appropriate, but I do not think that it is as big as a deal as for children because we are adults and should know to not give a crap about what some person is saying over the internet.   But children do not know better, and that goes for the bullied and the bullying.  Kids will say bad things and kids will also take things very seriously and potentially cause harm to themselves. I think kids do need to learn to not care what other people say or think and that is part of adulating. Parents need to be responsible and raise their kids to not be cyber bullies.  Parents need to be transparent enough with their children so their children are comfortable enough to talk about getting bullied.  I do not the cyber bullying is something that can easily be solved on the technical end but needs to be addressed between parents and their children.  If companies can think of ways to protect against cyber bullying, they should try these methods out and do what they can to help.

My take with trolling is trolls are usually losers who hide behind their computer screens to get angry and make other people angry.  I also luckily do not think I have ever been trolled.  I feel like I kind of understand trolling for people who are incredibly passionate about an issue and feel like it is their duty fight the opposing opinion.  But there is a line between disagreeing anonymously and harassing.  I still think anonymously sharing your opinion is less strong than doing it non-anonymously (but understand the need sometimes to share your opinion anonymously).  Harassing is uncalled for.  

The closest thing I ever did to be a troll was strongly complain about the way Dr. Milenkovic graded a quick in discreet math. I said some harsher things on Piazza but I made the post anonymous to students but not to the instructor.  I try to hold myself to a standard where I am not going to hide behind an anonymous mask to criticize someone.  I owed it to her to have her know who was complaining.  Anyways, I went to her office the next day and said it was me who made the post and I apologized.  She didn’t really care about what I said anyways (she probably gets complaints all the time and developed a thick skin).  But I did the productive thing and talked to her about why I was upset and actually got 10 points returned on my quiz grade. Moral of the story: trolling doesn’t accomplish the same goals are talking to someone to their face if you disagree with them.

I would have said that removing anonymity would help make the internet a better place prior to reading [this article][real-name] that says real name policies do not make matters better.  A couple good points are that we do not really want companies with our personal info personally identifying us and that both trolls and those who trolls attack benefit from being anonymous.  You might not want a troll knowing who you actually are.

Anonymity on the internet is a curse but it is what we are stuck with.  I do not think the internet is a great place for fruitful discussion.  Online dialogue can sometime change people’s opinions but frankly I do not think people care much about the opinion of some anonymous rando across the country. At least I don’t.  I am all about having conversations with the people in front of me.


[west-troll]: https://www.theguardian.com/society/2015/feb/02/what-happened-confronted-cruellest-troll-lindy-west
[google-names]: http://www.slate.com/blogs/future_tense/2014/07/17/google_plus_finally_ditches_its_ineffective_dangerous_real_name_policy.html
[gamer-gate]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9L_Wmeg7OTU
[real-name]: https://blog.coralproject.net/the-real-name-fallacy/
