---
layout: post
title:  'Reading 09: Net Neutrality'
date:   2018-03-24 11:00:00 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
Net Neutrality is the notion that all data on the internet needs to be treated equally by internet service providers.  ISPs must not favor any sort of content over any other, which would allow some content to reach users faster than other content, and would allow some customers (who may have paid extra) to access things quicker than other customers.  Bits are bits.  Net Neutrality implies a bit blindness. 

Net Neutrality was somewhat of an assumed rule since the beginning of the internet.  But supposedly predatory practices in recent years led to an official enforcement of Net Neutrality under the reclassification of ISPs as common carries under Title II of the Telecommunications Act in 2015.  This classification and Net Neutrality are not the same exact thing, but the reclassification allows for deeper regulations of ISPs including an enforcement of Net Neutrality.

Arguments for Net Neutrality uphold it as the essential principle driving an affordable and innovative internet.  An internet where everything is treated equally fosters competition.  Were certain companies to be treated specially by ISPs by paying ISPs, we could have a huge barrier for competitors to enter the market.  Net Neutrality also gives all people an equal voice.  An activist blog is as accessible as a major company’s website.  There is absolutely no room for censorship.  Treating data equally implies you ISPs cannot make fast lanes for those who pay more, allowing those from all economic backgrounds to potentially thrive on the internet and improve themselves.

I have found that those disagree with Net Neutrality (or those who I think have sensible disagreements) do not think the entire notion of Net Neutrality is trash.   They think that there are allowable exceptions to Net Neutrality.  If you make exceptions, the net is no longer entirely neutral.  These exceptions supposedly will foster innovation for ISPs, allowing them to deliver services differently.  They also supposedly will make certain things fairer for ISPs.  An argument I find compelling is that video streaming on Netflix takes up way more bandwidth than normal internet browsing, and therefore, ISPs should be able to charge more for watching Netflix.  This is just like how an 18-wheeler does more damage to a highway, and therefore pays more for tolls than normal cars (example taken from [here][18-wheeler]).

When this was a hot topic a few months ago when Ajit Pai repealed the Title II classification, the only really strong opinion I had was that the passionate reactions that this would result in the apocalypse or something were incredibly overstated.  At the very least, if things were to go terribly wrong in the coming years, when we have a new president and new FCC chairperson the FCC can ISPs simply reclassify ISPs as common carries.  Furthermore, my take is that Title II and Net Neutrality are *not* synonymous.  FCC did not “kill” Net Neutrality, it is allowing exceptions to it.  And if ISPs start abusing these exceptions then I would hope Ajit Pai brings back stricter regulations.   There also could also arguable exist a person who is anti-Title II classification but pro-Net Neutrality on the grounds that they believe that the government is pretty bad at doing things (sentiments expressed [here][govt-article]).

I support Net Neutrality in principle and admire the implications discussed above.  But I also sympathize with limited exceptions to it in practice.  The libertarian in me says that these ISPs were the ones that built this infrastructure and they stand between us and the internet and therefore they can do what they want.  But I also really do not want them to do whatever they want.  I think the claims that ISPs might target people based on their identity or discriminate against particular social and political movements are overstated because I would hope that ISPs would be prosecuted for discrimination if they acted in such ways.  

When it comes to the video steaming and 18-wheeler comparison, I find it hard to argue that ISPs are committing an egregious crime when they want to charge more to steam Netflix.  If I am working on homework, and my neighbor is watching a lot of Netflix, and I am buffering and getting poorer connection because of this, I would wish they need to pay more to watch their Netflix. But this is supposing my homework is more important than Netflix, and as we discussed last week, why does a corporation have the right to consider which is more important.  A more compelling example of this is if someone else streaming pornography, something that can more clearly be considered more wasteful or immoral than Netflix.   What about stopping illegal steaming? Could that be permitted?

I think we need to uphold the principle of Net Neutrality but also discuss sensible exceptions.  I also think we need to separate the notion of removing the Title II classification and killing Net Neutrality.  ISPs need to be held accountable for being fair and I think they should be given some flexibility from pure neutrality but must be held accountable if those rights are being abused. Polarizing the topic makes discussing the issue difficult.  

[18-wheeler]: https://beinglibertarian.com/net-neutrality-anything-neutral/
[govt-article]: https://www.forbes.com/sites/joshsteimle/2014/05/14/am-i-the-only-techie-against-net-neutrality/#7f7a014e70d5